---
title: 'Online Dictionaries'
toc: true
permalink: /dictionaries/
---

There is a compact bilingual dictionary (= *einsprachiges Wörterbuch*) at the
end of your textbook. However, it will often not have the words you need and it
will not give you examples how to use a word in context.

## Bilingual online dictionaries

*Die folgenden Websiten bieten meist auch einen Textübersetzer an. Bitte
verwende __nicht__ die Textübersetzung, sondern das Wörterbuch, sonst werden
dir nicht alle Möglichkeiten der Übersetzung vorgeschlagen.*

- [PONS](https://en.pons.com/translate)

- [Collins
Deutsches Wörterbuch](https://www.collinsdictionary.com/de/worterbuch/englisch-deutsch)

## Monolingual online dictionaries

- [Collins English
Dictionary](https://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english)

- [Cambridge
Dictionary](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/learner-english/)

- [Oxford Learner's Dictionary](https://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.com/):
_Gibt es das gleiche Wort in unterschiedlichen Wortarten (z.B. to cook und a
cook - kochen und der Koch), musst du, je nachdem welche Wortart zuerst
angezeigt wird, unter "Other results" die richtige Wortart auswählen._

- [Macmillan English
Dictionary](https://www.macmillandictionary.com/dictionary/): As the Oxford Learner's Dictionary, the Macmillan Dictionary
separates different word forms. So _to cook_ will be a different entry from _a
cook_.

- [Longman Dictionary](https://www.ldoceonline.com/dictionary/): The Longman
Dictionary of Contemporary English has the advantage that it shows you
**collocations** for many words you look up (see for an explanation of
_collocation_).

- [Merriam-Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/): This
dictionary focuses on **American English**.

## Collocation Dictionaries

In any language, you have combinations of words which you use together more
often than other combinations.

For example, a native speaker of English wouldn't say _I made my homework_.
They would say _I did my homework_. The noun _homework_ **collocates** with the
verb _do_.

One free online collocations dictionary is <https://ozdic.com/>. It can help
you to sound more like a native speaker.

Exercise: Use **ozdic.com** to complete the following sentences:

- VERB + NOUN: I have to XXX an exam on Friday. Can you help me revise?

- PREP. + NOUN: What are you doing XXX the weekend?

- ADJ. + NOUN: I took the XXX _(<-> slow)_ train to London. When I arrived at
home, I took a XXX _(<-> long)_ shower.

- ADV. + VERB: I XXX advise you to pay attention in your English lessons.

- VERB + PREP.: Do you agree XXX her?
