---
title: 'Holding a discussion'
date: 2023-05-18
last_modified_at: 2023-05-18
category: vocabulary
---

In class or in exams you will often be asked to discuss an issue. One of your
goals in this context is to keep the discussion going and to respond to what
others say. For example, the **examination grid for B1 oral exams in Bavaria**
has one criterion called "Gesprächsfähigkeit/Strategie" with the following
description:

- flexible and spontaneous interaction with interlocutors[^interlocutor], if
necessary using appropriate strategies skilfully (= _flexible, auch spontane
Interaktion mit den Gesprächspartnern, ggf. unter geschickter Verwendung
**geeigneter Strategien**_)

- successful reponse to the interlocutors' contributions (= _**gelungenes
Eingehen** auf die Beiträge der Gesprächspartner_)

- fluent contributions (= _flüssige Äußerungen_)

## Playing the devil's advocate

Keeping a discussion going may be more difficult if everyone who takes part in
the discussion is of the same opinion. One strategy in this case is to play the
devil's advocate. To quote the Collins Dictionary, to play the devil's advocate
means to "express an opinion which you may not agree with but which is very
different from what other people have been saying, in order to make the
argument more interesting."

If you want you can openly tell the others about your strategy. For example,
you could say: "Let me play the devil's advocate. People who disagree with what
you just said might reply to you XYZ. What would your response be?" This may
help you if the opinion you will present is unpopular.

## Asking questions

True discussions should be an exchange of ideas and opinions. The last thing
you will want to do in this context is to hold a monologue. Instead you should
at some point in the discussion ask the others questions.

If you want to give another person the opportunity to voice their opinion, ask
open-ended questions. Open-ended questions are questions which require more
than a simple yes or no answer. They typically start with the question word
_how_, _why_ or _what_.

You may want to ask other people about their views on a topic:

- What are your thoughts on XYZ? What do you think of XYZ?

- What's your opinion on XYZ? In your opinion, what/why ...?

- How do you feel about XYZ?

Or you may want to ask them about solutions to a problem:

- How would you go about XYZ?

- What examples can you think of XYZ?

## Reacting to other points

In a true discussion (as opposed to a series of monologues), people react to
each other. To be able to react to the other people in the discussion you have
to first listen, and then, when you speak, try to reference what others have
said.

The simplest way of doing so is to agree or disagree:

- I (completely) agree (with you on XYZ).

- That's a good point.

- I couldn't agree more (with you on XYZ).

- Yeah, but ...

- I'm not sure I agree with you on ...

- I'm sorry but I do

- I'm afraid I disagree ...

You can then continue to support or refute[^refute] the other person's argument
while (repeatedly) referring back to what they said.

If you only want to partially agree or disagree, you can use one of the
following phrases.

- I'm not sure about that.

- It's (only) partly true that ...

- It is not as simple as it seems.

- I see what you mean, but ... / I see your point, but ...

- I agree with you in part / to some extent, but ...

- On the whole, I agree with you, but ...

If you only partially agree, you will have to explain to what extent you are of
the same opinion and to what extent you see things differently.

## Bonus tip: Give concrete examples

This is not necessarily a discussion strategy but a basic part of every
argument: For every argument you make, try to give concrete and detailed
examples.

I decided to include it in this post because concrete examples give other
people in the discussion more opportunities to react. They can ask you
questions about your example, add a different example of their own to support
your argument, or use your example to refute your argument.

## Exercise

With one or two peers, pick one of the following prompts to discuss. Pick 5
phrases from this post, which you want to use in the discussion and copy them
to a prompt card. Then set a timer and try to keep the discussion going until
the alarm sounds.

- We should introduce school uniforms at our school.

- Smart phones should be allowed at school at all times.

- We should all become vegetarians.

- "It is not enough to succeed. Others must fail." - Gore Vidal

## Sources

<https://www.collinsdictionary.com/de/worterbuch/englisch/devils-advocate>

<https://learningenglish.voanews.com/a/how-to-express-your-opinions-in-english/4755937.html>

<https://www.eslbuzz.com/how-to-express-agreement-partial-agreement-or-disagreement-in-english/>

[^interlocutor]: interlocutor: someone you are having a conversation with

[^refute]: to refute something: to prove that a statement is false
